
Lets consider a website that allows registration and login, and does not particularly attempt to connect users with a real world identity. You can ask for a handle and a password, but as soon as you ask for a name or email address, you are beginning to tie this to a real world identity.

Ok, so they login with a username and a password. Lets suppose you let them choose their own username & password. How does this stand up?

It's a good start, gives reasonable protection.








How can you authenticate somebody?


Security theory:
  Something you know
  Something you have
  Something you are
  Somewhere you are
  (+ sort of contactability)


Password / pin
  i.e. pre-agreed shared secret, one that can be memorised by a human
  (Long password stored on computer medium - won't, use pkey)

  This is good authentication, but relies on the password being setup, and people will sometimes forget them.


Contactability
  Phone
  Text
  Email
  Mail
  In person

  --> via card bill (e.g. paypal)

  This is a strong authentication, but not one you'd want to use too often. Great for registrations and forgotten passwords.


Personal details
  Name
  Address
  DOB

Memorable questions
  Mother's maiden name
  Father's first name
  Name of first school
  Place of birth
  Mother's first name
  First pet's name
  Who was you childhood hero
  Father's middle name
  Make of first car
  Where did you meet your spouse?

  Credit card number
  Bank account number

  This is a fairly weak authentication - these details can be public knowledge


Secret questions:
    What was the surname of your favourite teacher?
    What was your favourite food as a child?
    What was the surname of your first boss?
    What is the name of the hospital where you were born?
    What is the name of the street on which you grew up?
    What was your first pet's name?
    What is the name of your favourite book?
    What is the surname of your favourite musician?
    What was the make of your first car?



Details of things on your account
  Recent transactions
  Opening dates
  Details of what you have
  -- credit reference agencies are in a uniquely good position here!
  -> note, this is insecure against call centre workers


Interesting variation - Leisure suit larry!



Public key
Secure ID token
Smart card
Scratch off cards


