Any site with passwords should be pretty secure - the use of passwords makes users expect it.
User must be able to logon with just knowledge (otherwise use secure id or smartcard).
The point of passwords is that someone can go to any trusted computer, and login with just what's in their head.
If you don't need that flexibility, use SSL certs - much stronger.

...

Choices:
  Allow user to change?
    Makes it easier for user to remember, lets them use passwordmaker, etc.
    Risk that they re-use a password from another system
    A possible workaround is to Length limit, forbid chars, but bad to use
    --> How to mitigate risk of another admin knowing pw??

    Risk that they choose a poor password, but...
    Strength checking
      Prevents them picking an easily guessable password
      Does make it harder for them to remember
      Especially as strength rules (and allowed lenghts/chars) vary so much **

    Recommend: Allow change. Usually have strength checking


  Aging
    If a password is compromised, this limits the expose.
    But it makes it harder for the user to remember.

    Once-a-month changes are very hard to keep up with.
    I think for most sites six months would be pushing it for users, but that's little protection.
    Few sites do this, not even banks.

    Recommend: usually no

    Forbid reuse
    Minimum age

  Brute force protection


    Lockout -
    Idea: soft lockout & hard


  Have a forgotten password function?
    All sites need to have this in some form.
      -> although it may be through their phone channel
    It's obviously a risk!
    Some similarities with creating accounts.

    Generally reset password to a new value.
      Can't tell user current password (as hashed)

    Usually tied to some way of contacting the user - email/phone/sms/post
    This seems quite secure, although email is unencrypted.
    However, phone/sms/post is expensive especially internationally
    Definitily some mileage in banks, etc. using SMS

    To mitigate that, force user to change pw straight away after reset

    Need to control triggering of the reset process - to prevent annoyance/dos/exposure
      Ask for some personal details; doesn't need to be loads.
      Something they know, that doesn't change.
      Surname/DOB is good, although perhaps too widely known.

      Favorite colour/pets name/place of birth/etc.
        Dodgy as I wouldn't necessarily remember what I'd said.
        Probably ok if you ask a few and don't require all of them to allow login.
          -> but that's a real pain!
        name of your first school
        mother's maiden name
        town/city of birth
        father's first name

        paypal do two questions that you choose

        account history
          credit cards used (they give you name, expiry & last 2 digits)
          bank accounts (give you name, last 2 digits)

        leakage that they tell you that lot & two sec questions (although not the answers!)
        But this does fire off an email to the user, so it's not a quiet attack


    How about, instead of a reset, they just prove they got the activation code
      AHA!!!


    Does reset clear lockout status?
      -> I reckon not, but...

  What to use for a user name?
    email address is good - unique & user will remember
    But there's an argument that user names should be more unknown than that.
    User picks name; must be unique
      -> this inherently leaks user name existence

    System assigns
      -> but then it's hard for user to remember


  Paypal call you and have you enter a pin (provided on web site) into the phone
    -> entering pin is even better than receiving, because just being able to eavesdrop is not enough!!!

  Ebay leaks user name existence through "forgot password"
    but forgot user name doesn't reveal emails
    asks for

  Yahoo ask for dob, postcode, country, and
    email -> sends you user name
    username
      -> emails you new password, or
      -> enter pet'sc


  Creating accounts






No choice:
  Don't store plaintext password - users may use same p/w elsewhere






8 chars 2^16 words
  mixed case 2^8 cap
  2 tweaks - 2^8 max
  i.e. 2^32 - optimistics

  or 2^15 words
  1 cap 2^3
  1 tweak 2^5
  i.e. 2^23
